every week I see SAS companies make
these same seven SEO mistakes costing
them leads signups and demos I'm going
to share exactly how you can fix
[Music]
them hey I'm Sam Dunning founder over at
breaking bd.com and if you want to join
thousands of B2B Legends enjoying my
weekday newsletter for weird SEO tips
marketing experiments case studies and
podcast updates head over to Breaking
[Music]
bb.com so mistake number
one that I see time and again is where
SAS companies neglect going for money
keywords what I mean by that is they're
not going for longtail commercial intent
Focus keywords where a pro ects typing
this search into Google because they're
ready to take a demo or they want to
speak to a salesperson or even sign up
around the solution service or offering
that you provide instead SAS companies
are targeting hi trffic informational or
educational based keywords going for the
traffic trap and instead they're getting
a load of vanity based traffic that very
few actually convert into any type of
lead or sign up or demo and usually
those kind of educ ational searches are
like how is something or what is
something like what is a kpi what is a
CRM best ways to do this these are all
informational searches where someone's
super early in the journey they might be
searching for an answer to a question or
quite a vague query yes they might
stumble upon your article and it might
drive a ton of traffic but at best
they're probably going to grab a lead
magnet maybe check out your podcast or
check out your YouTube channel or check
out your newsletter or similar those
folks searching for that informational
query like what is something how to do
something or similar they're just not
ready they're not in that buying
position so instead you want to start at
the bottom of the sales funnel for folks
that are searching directly for your
solution or comparing you to
Alternatives so that could be in the
software industry let's pretend that you
provide calendar scheduling tools it
could be queries like best calendar
scheduling software best calendar
scheduling tools best calendar
scheduling platform or you might want to
go for alternative based queries so if
you do sell Canada scheduling software
it might be canly Alternatives or chili
Piper Alternatives or Revenue hero
Alternatives when folks search for this
they're not doing it for fun they're
doing it because usually when folks are
looking for software they're comparing
three or four vendors so if they're
searching things like C cly Alternatives
or Revenue hero Alternatives or maybe
they're doing a versus search like cly
versus Revenue hero and if you can build
an article that positions your offer is
number one on that list ofal usually
they top 10 Alternatives or something
like that and if you can position your
offer as number one but not talk about
how great you are talk about your
differentiators the problems you fix
others don't have a comparison table of
you versus your main competitors share
those juicy problems you fix layer in
some trust signals social proof customer
review videos customer quotes and then
clear call to action to take a sign up
get a free trial request a demo those
are really strong ways those are exactly
what folks search and they're ready to
have that sales convos they might be
alternative searches they might be
pricing searches so back to the calendar
schedule example it might be calendar
pricing HubSpot meetings pricing Revenue
hero pricing that kind of stuff or
directly searching for the offer like
best calendar scheduling software or
best your offer software tools platform
or best software for specific Niche
whether that's recruitment HR sales
whatever niches you serve those kind of
bottom of the funnel queries are what
you really want to exhaust and start
with of your SEO campaign and build
content for those initially before
worrying about top of funnel more
informational queries that probably
aren't going to convert anywhere there
as
well you tired of competitors ranking
above you on Google stealing traffic
leads and mind share from dream clients
every time they're searching for your
services or offers on Google breaking
B2B we fix that with our unusual
approach to SEO content marketing and
websites we craft B2B SEO strategies and
websites for Revenue not vanity head
over to Breaking bb.com to check our
results pricing or to book a call with
me mistake number
[Music]
two is SAS companies are way too slow to
publish content so once you've made your
list of money keywords those commercial
longtail keywords that folks are going
to search when they need your offer they
need your solution or your software your
tools now they're comparing you to
Alternatives or maybe they're looking at
specific juicy Niche problems that you
fix Let's Pretend you've made that
exhaustive list of keywords but it's
taking ages to publish content so you
know the topics you need to make you
know the type of pages whether it's
articles listicles comparison Pages
landing pages whatever it may be but
you're just trying to make the perfect
page when really your advantage
especially for smaller businesses
startups midmarket Etc is that you can
publish quick if you're Enterprise you
might have a much slower way of
processing things and building out
content getting approvals and more
whereas if you're a smaller business you
can make your exhaustive list of money
keywords you can then realize what type
of PAG you need to rank you can cue
those up you can write those internally
or get external help and then you can
start publishing at speed quick you can
start publishing those pages you quicker
you can see what ranks if they're top
three organic positions I ideally top
one excellent if they're not after a
month or two then you know you need to
improve them perhaps tweak the metadata
perhaps add some extra content perhaps
add some extra insights perhaps work on
some back links but the quicker you get
stuff out the door quick as you publish
the quicker you can get more lines in
the water those commercial queries rank
more relevant High intent sales ready
traffic and then either optimize them or
keep doing more of the same this is a
superpow especially if you've got giant
competitors that are much bigger than
you but are going to be way slower to
publish so that is your
advantage mistake three and this is a
super painful one this is when your web
design or development team is super slow
to publish and there could be a number
of reasons behind this it could be
they're working on product so they're
busy actually building stuff for your
software tools itself it could be
they've got huge backlog of other
projects to deliver it could be due to
slow moving approval processes there's a
number of ways to tackle this if you
agree with the rest of your team the SEO
is an initiative that you've perhaps
been neglecting and competitors are
constantly ahead of you in organic
search results when your target clients
are searching for what you do comparing
you to Alternatives or searching for
problems you fix and you've agreed this
is a program you want to address to
drive high intent traffic demos and
signups from organic search then you
need to prioritize it you need to say
look designers developers this is a
priority we are going to be shipping
commercial Pages we want to start taking
SEO seriously so this is going to be a
high priority project if your devs are
just truly stacked you might want to
look at external resource whether that's
designers devs be an agency Freelancers
Etc but what's the point in putting in
the hard miles of identifying those
money keywords building out pages to
match that intent to surpass the
competitors building out really useful
helpful content but if you can't publish
it it will never see the light of day
and it's not going to rank on Google
[Music]
mistake number four is having every exac
or every member of your team wanting to
make just a small tweak super painful
marketing by committee does not work and
too many cooks spoil the broth sure
you've heard it before so to stop this
from happening and stop everyone
throwing in their two cents and ruining
a page or design or a piece of copy and
meaning it probably won't rank as well
as you want and it definitely isn't
going to resonate and it's not going to
convert is outlining clear process from
day one whether that is with a Google
Drive a Google sheet a different format
whatever you use internally basic saying
this is going to be the clear process
we're going to identify money keywords
we're going assess what type of pages we
need to build to rank them we're going
to craft out the content we're going to
pull insights from sales calls from
prospects from subject matter experts
internally then we're going to craft the
content then we're going to publish it
then we're going to build back links as
needed whatever that process may be and
basically saying this is when we can
take some insights from the team but
it's going to be limited to this much
feedback and then we're going to have a
bias towards publishing so we can
actually make a dent make a huge impact
with our SEO rather than constantly
going in circles of feedback loot
internally and that's just going to pull
away from our main objectives that's the
best move forward from what we've seen
working with clients at breaking B2B to
avoid the endless internal debates thus
ruining content and ruining the results
you
[Music]
want I'm mist number five is having wall
of text blog articles so having a wall
of text article yeah it might actually
rank on Google but it's not going to
convert it's not going to build trust
it's not going to share proof of
examples it's not going to convince
folks that have found your article
through Google search to book a demo or
take a free trial or even subscribe to a
newsletter or Grab A Lead magnet so
weaving in your products so many
companies uh they'll provide really
useful articles whether it's a HTO
whether it's a competitor comparison
whether it's a best of listic Co or
something else they put together a
really detailed article but they'll be
scared to actually weave in their
product so they won't have product
imagery examples they won't have a live
demo or they won't have gifts or
screenshots and or maybe not social
proof or client testimonials or reviews
and it's like how do you expect folks to
kind of build enough trust in your offer
or check out more solution or product
pages if they can't actually see the the
product if you're not treating it as is
a sales page which it actually should be
so as an example I'm looking at one of
our clients's articles a howto article
in this case they've got screenshots
weaved in as we scroll on the left hand
side fixed on the desktop view they've
actually got a a newsletter sign up lead
magnet so what I'd encourage you to do
is if it's more of an educational
article like a how-to then you could
have fixed on the left hand or the right
hand side a lead Magnet or newsletter
option so if you enjoyed this why not
try out our newsletter or if it was more
of a bottom of funnel article like a
comparison page or a best of listicle or
something like that then you might have
an option to take a trial or take a demo
then as you scroll for the article why
not weave in screenshots of your product
why not weave in live demo if you've got
one or link out to to other product
pages that are relevant or show examples
of the use cases that you're talking
about whether you can weave in customer
quotes testimonials other kinds of
social proof so folks can really see it
in action it's not just a dull wall of
text but it's actually showing off your
product building that trust driving that
conversion then of course having clear
call to actions to take a relevant Next
Step whether that is a demo whether that
is a trial whether that is something a
bit more low touch like checking out
your newsletter or checking out a lead
magnet mistake number six is neglecting
customer research if you don't resonate
you won't convert so knowing your dream
client's
expensive problems they main
frustrations their key goals their jobs
to be done so what I mean by that is how
they're getting a certain project or
task done today and that struggling
moment where that task becomes so
frustrating so cumbersome maybe it costs
them Revenue it cost them staff Churn it
costs them time resource or something
else knowing that expensive problem the
impact not fixing it learning the jobs
to be done framework is definitely going
to be worth your time as a B2B marketer
and knowing their main goals and their
aspirations and that way when you're
building out landing pages or articles
or even lisal Pages positioning at the
start kind of this we know you're facing
this problem we know this is the main
impact and this is how our solution is
is the painkiller this is going to save
you the time or reduce churn or help you
with your onboarding or whatever that
kind of main task they're trying to do
so knowing those problems is not only
good for the content that you're going
to craft to make sure it's actually
going to resonate hit home with those
dream clients and convince them build
trust with them to take action super
useful for marketing in general whether
that's via ads for blog articles for
landing pages for Content elsewhere or
outside of your website so as an example
our breaking B2B when we undertake new
clients when we on board new clients for
SEO we always ask questions like what
the main outcomes that you're looking
for what is an ideal client profile to
you what are the main problems that you
fix how do prospects describe your offer
know the jargon they use do they speak
technically or do they use simple words
to describe the offer itself your main
competitors um we also ask things like
how do folks get the job done today like
if you're offering CRM often the enemy
to CRM is folks doing in house with
Google Sheets or come with some Excel
sheets like do we know that that is your
enemy and do you want to position your
offerers we know that you're probably
getting fed up and tired of filling out
endless spreadsheets for an hours and
hours and a day save all that time every
day and look at a solution like ours
where you can integrate all that data in
in a couple Clicks in a couple minutes
or whatever that time save or that
benefit is and also understanding The
Tipping points so where does usually
that problem get so frustrating that
they start investigating Solutions like
yours and if you know all these Insider
insights and if you can pull those from
external team if you can pull those from
sales calls from your prospect
conversations or customer success calls
and then weave those in to your articles
to your landing pages to your website
General it's going to really help
resonate with those dream clients show
you know their world show you know their
problems position you're offering as the
painkiller and drive way more juicy
conversions leads or
Demos in number seven we've got wasting
time on technical SEO and the truth is
unless your site has thousands of pages
which is pretty rare for most B2B or SAS
websites until you get to Ecom level
sites with thousands and thousands of
products so for most SAS websites
technical SEO is blown out of proportion
and the truth is making your website
speed .1 second quicker or messing
around with image alt tags is not the
best use of your time instead you should
do those tasks we talk about identify
those money keywords those commercial
value keywords prioritize them build out
pages to rank for those using customer
insights using subject matter expertise
showing you know your dream clients
World their problems the impact of those
problems their goals their jobs to be
done positioning your offer sharing
examples of your solution and weaving in
cool to actions and then publishing it
scale so you can start putting multiple
lines in the water and start driving
relevant traffic to drive inbound leads
demos or signups then on the technical
side of things the main things you want
to be worried about is making sure that
your meta title and description have
your relevant Focus keyword within them
that your url has the main keyword so
let's say one of the pages we're
building out was for best proposal
software maybe the URL goes
yourdomain.com
proposal hyen software or if it was a
competitor alternative it might be
yourdomain.com
competitor nameen Alternatives and then
you want one H1 on the actual page
itself one heading one tag and again
that needs your focus keyword within it
so it might be the best proposal
software tools of 2024 and that way
you've got proposal software tools or
software within the keyword itself in
the H1
and then otherwise that's the main
things you want to worry about the
metadata the H1 URL and you might weave
in the keyword throughout your the body
of content on the page but you don't
want to stuff it or jam it in there and
you might have it on other headings
other H2S throughout the page but that's
the main thing you want to worry about
as long as your website loads quickly
looks great on mobile desktop and tablet
views and ideally the design has some
customer research so the messaging and
the layout speak to what your dream
clients care about then on the technical
side of things as long as you follow
those best practices then you'll be able
to publish pages that
[Music]
Rank and there you have it I hope you
found the seven tips and mistakes to
avoid of use for your SAS or B2B company
and if you haven't yet why not join
thousands of B2B Legends enjoying my
weird daily newsletter for unusual B2B
marketing tips SEO strategies and case
studies and podcast updates just head
over to breaking bb.com and you can hit
that newsletter tab or if you want to
apply to work with us then hit the book
of cool and with that I should catch you
on the next one cheers
[Music]